adding bot documentation (#70)
Libera-Chat/libera-chat.github.io: content/_guides/bots.md

---
title: Network bots
category: chanop

> credits: web7

Reviewer: Is this document really based on existing content from Web-7.0, or is it original text?

Author: i copied a file and adapted it

---

We runs various irc bots, some of them have a public facing usage.
Any request or questions about our utility bots can be asked in #libera-bots

## ozone

When your channel is being targeted by spam bots, you can `/invite ozone`
**If you run some bots, you should voice them** otherwise ozone could ban them if they are too verbose.

If it bans a legit user, op yourself on your channel `/msg chanserv op $channel` and ask ozone to unkline the  user `/msg ozone unkline $nick`

If you want ozone to stay permanently on your channel, contact us.
ozone may requires a minimum numbers of users on the channel before joining, this varies over time.
ozone may also enter a channel on it's own if it believes that the channel is under attack.
you can kick it if you wish. it won't come back.

## litharge

> A channel bans/quiets management bot ( an instance of [ChanTracker](https://github.com/ncoevoet/ChanTracker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A channel bans/quiets management bot (an instance of [ChanTracker](https://github.com/ncoevoet/ChanTracker))
```

### usage

After you quiet/kick/ban (ie: a "mode change") the offending user, you need to set the mode change expiration and document with litharge.

You will receive a PM from litharge asking you to document the mode change. Follow the instructions.

    <litharge> For [#1238 +b *!*@255.255.255.255 in #example - 1 user(s)] type <duration> <reason>, you have 5 minutes

If you do not reply within 5 minutes, you can view all pending mode changes (ie: view all mode changes that have not been marked or edited yet) and document them by doing the following: 

    /msg litharge pending #example --oper <yournick>

Change the mode change expiration from the default (if one has been chosen):
 
    /msg litharge edit 1238 6d
    /msg litharge mark 1238 continuing to troll

Or, you can combine the edit and mark commands: 

    /msg litharge editandmark 1553 30d came back to troll from this hostmask in other chans

If you want to check the results of a mode change before it's placed, and which bans would affect a given user (assuming the bot shares a channel with the user): 

    /msg litharge check #example *!*@*.com

> That show all channels with .com in hostmask being affected by any intended mode change 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That will show all users with `.com` in their hostmask being affected by any intended mode change 
```

---
title: Network bots
category: chanop
---

> We runs various irc bots, some of them have a public facing usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We run various IRC bots, some of them have a public facing usage.
```

> Any request or questions about our utility bots can be asked in #libera-bots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any requests or questions about our utility bots can be asked in `#libera-bots`.
```

## ozone

When your channel is being targeted by spam bots, you can `/invite ozone`
**If you run some bots, you should voice them** otherwise ozone could ban them if they are too verbose.

If it bans a legit user, op yourself on your channel `/msg chanserv op $channel` and ask ozone to unkline the  user `/msg ozone unkline $nick`

If you want ozone to stay permanently on your channel, contact us.
ozone may requires a minimum numbers of users on the channel before joining, this varies over time.
ozone may also enter a channel on it's own if it believes that the channel is under attack.

> you can kick it if you wish. it won't come back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to get rid of the bot again, you can kick it and it won't come back.
```

## litharge

> A channel bans/quiets management bot (an instance of [ChanTracker](https://github.com/ncoevoet/ChanTracker))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Litharge is a channel bans and quiets management bot. It is an instance of [ChanTracker](https://github.com/ncoevoet/ChanTracker).
```

> It keeps records of channel mode changes and permits management of them over time. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It keeps a record of channel mode changes and permits management of them over time. 
```

It stores affected users, enabling deep searching through them, reviewing actives, editing duration, marking/annotating them.

When requesting litharge for your channel, **contact us** in `#libera-bots` with the following informations:
- do you have an -ops channel or a channel where the bot should announce bans/quiets changes
- do you want the bans/quiets to be removed after a given period if no duration given by the operator?
- ensure `/msg ChanServ flags #example litharge +o` is in place

> To create an account on litharge `/msg litharge hello`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an account on litharge: `/msg litharge hello`
```

> This only works if you are identified to services `/msg NickServ help register` or `/msg NickServ help identify`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This only works if you are identified to services: `/msg NickServ help register` or `/msg NickServ help identify`
```

### usage

> At any time, once registered on the bot you can seek for online help

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you’re registered with the bot you can ask it for help at any time:
```

    /msg litharge help <command>

After you quiet/kick/ban (ie: a "mode change") the offending user, you need to set the mode change expiration and document with litharge.

You will receive a PM from litharge asking you to document the mode change. Follow the instructions.

    <litharge> For [#1238 +b *!*@255.255.255.255 in #example - 1 user(s)] type <duration> <reason>, you have 5 minutes

You can search inside the ban database, for expired or active elements

    /msg litharge query *!*@255.255.255.255 

If you do not reply within 5 minutes, you can view all pending mode changes (ie: view all mode changes that have not been marked or edited yet) and document them by doing the following: 

    /msg litharge pending #example --oper <yournick>

Change the mode change expiration from the default (if one has been chosen):
 
    /msg litharge edit 1238 6d
    /msg litharge mark 1238 continuing to troll

Or, you can combine the edit and mark commands, or edit and mark multiples elements in a row: 

    /msg litharge editandmark 1553 30d came back to troll from this hostmask in other chans
    /msg litharge mark 1238, 1112, 938 same user
    /msg litharge edit 1238, 1112, 938 1w
    

> You can also get info about a ban/quiet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also get info about a ban/quiet:
```

    /msg litharge info 1238

> you want to check the results of a mode change before it's placed, and which bans would affect a given user (assuming the bot shares a channel with the user): 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to check the results of a mode change before it's placed, and which bans would affect a given user (assuming the bot shares a channel with the user):
```

    /msg litharge check #example *!*@*.com

> That will show all users with `.com` in their hostmask being affected by any intended mode change 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That will show all users with `.com` in their hostmask being affected by any intended mode change.
```

---
title: Network bots
category: chanop
---

We run various IRC bots, some of them have a public facing usage.
Any requests or questions about our utility bots can be asked in `#libera-bots`.

## ozone

> ozone is an instance of [Sigyn](https://github.com/Libera-Chat/Sigyn).

Reviewer 3: I think we should start this off explaining that ozone is a network-run anti-spam bot. Many people won't know what Sigyn is.

When your channel is being targeted by spam bots, you can `/invite ozone`
**If you run some bots, you should voice them** otherwise ozone could ban them if they are too verbose.

If it bans a legit user, op yourself on your channel `/msg chanserv op $channel` and ask ozone to unkline the  user `/msg ozone unkline $nick`

If you want ozone to stay permanently on your channel, contact us.
ozone may require a minimum numbers of users on the channel before joining, this varies over time.

> ozone may also enter a channel on it's own if it believes that the channel is under attack.

Reviewer 4: > on it's own

please

Reviewer 5: It's a true statement? See https://github.com/Libera-Chat/Sigyn/blob/master/plugin.py#L2575-L2597

Author: yes, C&C channels get destroyed that way.

Reviewer 4: ...not sure about how true that is but maybe it should be "on its own"

Reviewer 5: Ah yes, `on it's own` is technically saying `on it is own` so really it should be `on its own`. It might've been better if you had led with that though.

If you wish to get rid of the bot again, you can kick it and it won't come back.

## litharge

Litharge is a channel bans and quiets management bot. It is an instance of [ChanTracker](https://github.com/ncoevoet/ChanTracker).
It keeps a record of channel mode changes and permits management of them over time. 
It stores affected users, enabling deep searching through them, reviewing actives, editing duration, marking/annotating them.

When requesting litharge for your channel, **contact us** in `#libera-bots` with the following informations:
- do you have an -ops channel or a channel where the bot should announce bans/quiets changes
- do you want the bans/quiets to be removed after a given period if no duration given by the operator?
- ensure `/msg ChanServ flags #example litharge +o` is in place

To create an account on litharge: `/msg litharge hello`
This only works if you are identified to services: `/msg NickServ help register` or `/msg NickServ help identify`

> ### usage

Reviewer 3: Should this be capitalized?
